The Food Groups

 

Including all food groups in your daily eating is important because.

        Grains Give your brain and muscles energy
        Are a good source of B-vitamins and iron Include grains like rice, potatoes, pasta, and whole grain bread at every meal.

        Fruits and Vegetables Help eyes, hair, and blood and boost your immune system
        Are a good source of vitamins A and C, minerals, and fiberTry having fruits and vegetables like apples, broccoli, pear, carrots, squash, salad 5-7 times per day (2 1/2 cups of veggies and 2 cups of fruit).

        Milk/Dairy Help maintain strong bones and teeth
        Are a good source of calcium and protein Have a serving of low fat dairy foods like 8 oz milk, 1 oz cheese, 1 cup yogurt, cottage cheese, pudding, or frozen yogurt 3 times a day.

        Meat/Protein :Help build muscles, fight infection, and heal wounds
        Are a good source of protein Try having beef, chicken, peanut butter, fish, tofu, or eggs at 2 meals daily.

        Fats and Oils :Keep hair and skin soft and gives a feeling of fullness
        Are a good source of dietary fat Include a little fat like salad dressing, olive oil, guacamole, nuts, or seeds at each meal.

Many young women don't get enough of all of the vitamins they need every day, even if they eat a balanced diet. Talk with your doctor about taking a multivitamin.

 


Top 5 Healthy Eating Tips

 

 

Milk in a Glass1. Make Time for Meals
Eating 3 meals per day plus snacks will give you energy that will last all day and keep your metabolism active. Pack healthy portable snacks such as fruit or a granola bar when you're on the go.

 

2. Balance Your Meals
Eating healthy meals that contain foods from at least 3 different food groups will help to ensure that you get all the nutrition you need to stay healthy! Be sure to eat different combinations of grains, fruits, vegetables, meat, dairy, and healthy fats throughout the day.

 

3. Don't forget Dairy
Your bones still need calcium to stay strong. Dairy foods and some dairy alternatives, such as enriched soymilk, provide protein as well as calcium.

 

4. Stay Hydrated
Proper hydration is important for healthy skin and organs. Drink water even if you are not thirsty. Waiting until you are thirsty to have fluids means you are already partially dehydrated. Pack a bottle of water in your backpack or gym bag!

 

5. Choose Appropriate Portions
Food portions in restaurants are often more than one serving size and they're getting bigger and bigger. You may not realize how much food you are actually eating. When you are at a restaurant, plan on taking half of your meal home or spilt an entrée with a friend. When eating at the dining hall, take smaller portions to start and go back for more if you are still hungry.

 

Top 5 Ways to Include Fitness in College Life

 

Bicycle1. Walk or Bike to Class
Be active on the way to class instead of taking the bus or car.

2. Join an Intramural Sport
This is a fun way to meet new people and fit in exercise, too!

3. Go for a Walk with Friends
Stay fit and catch up with friends at the same time. Instead of taking a short cut back to your dorm, take the scenic route and get in a little extra exercise.

4. Take a Fitness Class as a Course
This is a good way to include fitness into your routine and get credit, too. Consider weight lifting or dancing.

5. Check out your College Gym
Most colleges have gyms or fitness centers that offer free or reduced price memberships. They may also offer classes such as yoga, cardio, kickboxing, and dancing.