Some of the Softest Players in World Football

In America, footballers have a reputation for being pansies, divers, cheats and uninterested in good old-fashioned contact.

Generally, this is untrue. But there are some high-profile players who unfortunately epitomize this stereotype and go through games whining, shouting at referees and crumbling to the ground at the slightest contact.

There are others who genuinely get injured at the slightest touch and yet more who must continually look for a cushier environment in which to play.

These most undesirable men are soft footballers, and here are some of the softest in the world.

Watch any Queens Park Rangers match, and you will see the moody Adel Taarabt throwing himself all over the football pitch as he runs into defenders and loses the ball.

In addition to constantly flopping, he has a habit of screaming at the referees that don't believe his histrionic routine, which only serves to disgrace him more.

How do I know that Theo Walcott is a diver? He's admitted it himself.

At least he had the guts to apologize for it, but anyone who watches Arsenal regularly knows that Walcott goes down at the slightest touch, and, worse, is a constant complainer.

Even after his own mistakes, which include running the ball out of play under absolutely no pressure, he will scream at his teammates for some perceived fault on their part; never acknowledging that it was he who erred.

Zlatan Ibrahimovic's footballing career has just been one protracted saga.

He has generated more money in transfer fees than any other player in history, and moves club on an almost yearly basis because he can never stay settled at any one.

Whether it was simply not getting along with the manager (Barcelona), not willing to put in the work for a year to get back to the big time (Juventus) or just asking for a ridiculous amount of money (AC Milan), Ibrahimovic always seems to find a way out.

And, despite the fact that he is a large, imposing man, he will buckle and whine at the slightest touch on the pitch.

Ladies and gentlemen, meet Cristiano Ronaldo, the man who embodies everything that so many hate about the modern footballer.

Nearly every time he loses the ball, nearly every time a defender so much as touches him, nearly every tricky situation he finds himself in is responded to with a comedic flop and various gesticulations towards the referee.

Take one look at a man as tall, strong and powerful as Ronaldo, and it is obvious that he doesn't need to do these things and that, if he wanted to, he could play just as well with an honest approach.

Not C-Ron, though. His remarkable susceptibility to the basic challenge and the normal rigors of a football match make him the single softest player in world football.