Regatta with a difference

Most Australians will be concentrating on the federal election on August 21, but in Alice Springs there is a major diversion scheduled for that date - the annual Henley-on-Todd River Regatta.

Although originally inspired by England's annual Henley-on-Thames Regatta, the Alice version couldn't be more different. The English one is an upper-class social event with a full programme of rowing events. 

The Alice event is a chaotic mix of races between home-made, bottomless boats of all descriptions, carried by teams of runners down the dry bed of the Todd River - pictures of which have appeared in newspapers all over the world. 
A bathtub race is another feature. 
The river bed is normally dry in mid-winter, and the regatta has been cancelled only once in its 48-year history. Water has flowed four times this year, but organisers are confident that won't happen for this year's event. 

Race day starts with a parade down Todd Mall before the opening ceremony at 11am. Regatta Commodore Ron Saint says he would like to see all those making their own boats joining in. 

Race prizes on offer include vouchers from Alice Springs businesses and there's a draw for $500 among all competitors 

The day concludes with the Battle Boat Spectacular between the Vikings, the Pirates and a Naval crew with water-pistols and flour bombs as weapons.
 
The regatta is a money-raiser for the three Rotary clubs of Alice Springs. 
Entry Costs for the Henley-On-Todd Regatta are $12 Adult, $5 children and $25 Family. Registrations to enter any of the events can be taken on the day at no extra cost. 

FAQ

Where is the Henley-On-Todd Regatta held?
In Alice Springs, in the Todd River, just to the North of Todd Mall.
 
What time does the parade start? 
10.30am in Todd Street and makes its way down Todd Mall to the Todd River where the event is held.

What time do the races start?
11.45am 

How can I get involved in the boat races?
There are many ways to get involved in the event. You can bring your own boat and participate in the :”BYO” boat races
You can register at the event on the day. Just have a look at the wide variety of events available and then sign up at the entry tent on event day. There is also be an entry form in the Sandy Mariner – the event program, simply fill in the details and drop it to the entries tent on the day. You can also enter ONLINE before the big day. 

How long has the Henley-On-Todd Regatta been going?
2010 sees the running of the 49th Henley-On-Todd. The event is the single longest running event in the Northern Territory and has been labelled an Iconic Event for the Territory. 

Do we have to supply our own boats to enter a race?
No all vessels and equipment is supplied for competitors. 
Unless you wish to take part in the “BYO Boat” races – you then need to design and supply your own boat. 

Has the Henley-On-Todd Regatta ever been cancelled?
Yes! In 1993 there was too much water in the Todd River and the event had to be cancelled due to Flooding!

How can I get my school involved? 
There are races specifically designed for school groups. Why not enter your school in the Head of the river races! Simply turn up on the day and enter your team at the entries tent located on the bank of the River. 

Is there plenty of shade to sit under at the event? 
Yes but be sure to slip, slop, slap. 